Introduction to OOP
We'll now explore how to organize and structure your Python code using objects, making it more manageable, reusable, and easier to understand.

What is OOP Anyway?
Imagine you're building with LEGOs. Instead of just having a pile of individual bricks (like in procedural programming), OOP lets you create pre-assembled units – like a car, a house, or a robot. These units have specific parts (data) and things they can do (actions).

That's what OOP is all about. It's a way of programming that focuses on creating "objects." An object is like a self-contained unit that bundles together:

Data (Attributes): Information about the object. For a car, this might be its color, model, and speed.
Actions (Methods): Things the object can do. A car can accelerate, brake, and turn.
Why Bother with OOP?

OOP offers several advantages:

Organization: Your code becomes more structured and easier to navigate. Large projects become much more manageable.
Reusability: You can use the same object "blueprints" (classes) multiple times, saving you from writing the same code over and over.
Easier Debugging: When something goes wrong, it's often easier to pinpoint the problem within a specific, self-contained object.
Real-World Modeling: OOP allows you to represent real-world things and their relationships in a natural way.
The Four Pillars of OOP

OOP is built on four fundamental principles:

Abstraction: Think of driving a car. You use the steering wheel, pedals, and gearshift, but you don't need to know the complex engineering under the hood. Abstraction means hiding complex details and showing only the essential information to the user.
Encapsulation: This is like putting all the car's engine parts inside a protective casing. Encapsulation bundles data (attributes) and the methods that operate on that data within a class. This protects the data from being accidentally changed or misused from outside the object. It controls access.
Inheritance: Imagine creating a "SportsCar" class. Instead of starting from scratch, you can build it upon an existing "Car" class. The "SportsCar" inherits all the features of a "Car" (like wheels and an engine) and adds its own special features (like a spoiler). This promotes code reuse and reduces redundancy.
Polymorphism: "Poly" means many, and "morph" means forms. This means objects of different classes can respond to the same "message" (method call) in their own specific way. For example, both a "Dog" and a "Cat" might have a make_sound() method. The dog will bark, and the cat will meow – same method name, different behavior.












1
class car:

  def drive(self):
        print("car is moving")

s = car()
c.drive()

print(c.drive())
2.
class Person :
  def __init__ (self,name, age):
     self.name = name
     self.age = age

  def pri (self):
     print (f"my name is {self.name} and my age is {self.age}")

s = Person("sanjana", 23)
s.pri()

3. class Animal:

